Welcome back everyone to part four of our Q and A bot with Python 4 Part 4.
We're going to fit and train the network or at least show you how to fit and train the network.
It takes quite a long time to train this network.
So we're going to show you how to train it but then we'll cancel the training and then just show you
how to load the pre train model that we provide for you optionally it's up to you if you want to train
your own model on more epochs and what we did.
We have a model that was trained on one hundred epochs took a bit of time and we have that for you as
an H5 file they can easily load up so we'll show how to train the network will kind of cancel the training
then load up the pre train network if you want you can wait for the training and then we will plot out
the training history and then evaluate on our own test set and then what's really cool is we'll be able
to create our own stories and our own questions and then see if our network is able to answer some simple
questions.
Let's get started by jumping back to the notebook OK.
Recall last time we finished up our model by compiling it and then we have our summary of our model.
Now it's time to fit the model to do this.
We're going to assign a history variable and then we'll say model dot fit and then as a list will pass
in inputs train that we created earlier and then we will say queries train source and see training on
the input stories as well as the input questions the training set ones at least.
And then finally those were our exes and then we'll say answers train is the correct label you pass
in a batch size so let's use a batch size of 32.
This is something you can experiment with smaller batch sizes with longer training epochs should lead
to slightly better results.
But the one we train for was epochs one hundred.
So we train four hundred epochs in the model that we provide for you.
Doesn't take that long to train.
It's about five to 10 seconds per step on a pretty fast graphics card.
But if you're just running this on you it could be a quite a more maybe 30 to 60 seconds per step so
you can imagine for 100 epochs you're looking at six thousand seconds so that's quite a bit of time
we'll go ahead and just show you what this looks like what we'll train for just three epochs.
But again we provide a model for you in fact if you go to the departing folder there is a file called
Chapel underscore 10 that H5.
This is the one hundred epoch model that will load up in just a little bit.
The first illustrate how to train your own model in case you want to train it then we'll say validation
underscored data is equal to.
And here we're going to pass in a tuple with the same format as training data which is input test queries
test and then into this tuple will say answers test.
So let me zoom out here just so you can make sure you get the entire format.
Notice my validation data itself is a tuple here where the first item in the tuple is a list of two
elements the inputs test and the queries test.
And the second item is just answers test.
So go ahead and run this.
Make sure we don't commit any typos and then you should see training on 10000 samples validate on a
thousand samples.
Again this may take a while depending on how fast your computer is.
So right now I'm looking at about eight seconds but I have a really fast GPO.
So if you have a slower CPA or GP you depending on what you're running this on it could take quite a
bit of time and notice accuracy still isn't that good 50 percent which is essentially it's random guessing
yes or no.
And what we're gonna do now is show you how you could evaluate and plot out the training history of
your model and then we'll show you had actually load up the model that we created.
So if you wanted to plot out your training history I'm going to copy and paste the code that we provided
for you inside of our provided notebook.
So as a quick note if you open up our provided notebook right after this training step there's a saving
the model step.
I would not recommend overwriting the model that we created for you.
And then there's a plotting out training history.
This is essentially just a bunch of map plot lib code which gives you a nice little plot like this.
It's actually pretty straightforward we just plot out the history of the accuracy for the training set
as well as our validation accuracy for the test set.
So I'm just going to copy and paste this code.
So it's essentially just a bunch of title calls and plot calls.
So going to copy that.
So again copying it and then pasting it right here and let's go ahead and run that.
Remember we only trained for three epochs so it's gonna be kind of not a very impressive chart.
So this is on the first epoch or essentially where it started the first epoch and then the second epoch.
So not a whole lot of information here but as you train for more and more epochs for example I'll go
ahead and retrain for a ten epochs and then plot this out again while we wait for these tiny epochs
let me explain what's going on here in this plotting line we're importing my public SPL BLT we saying
map published lib in line in order to see the chart in line in this notebook the most recent version
of Jupiter no longer requires this but just the case you're using an older version I put it in there
and then I printed out the history that history donkey's history the history keys there's essentially
four items returned back and it's your validation loss validation accuracy and then your training loss
and trainee accuracy so sometimes you'll see people plot out the loss sometimes you'll see people plot
out the accuracy they're essentially in versus of each other right you're trying to either increase
your accuracy or reduce your loss depending on how you're thinking about the training.
So here we can see kind of a more realistic beginning of the curve that are more epochs or certainly
get better accuracy.
So after ten epochs we can see our accuracy is slowly improving again it makes sense that our default
accuracy starts off at 50 percent because the correct answers are either only yes or no.
So even in totally untrained neural network you get about 50 percent accuracy if you just randomly guessing
yes or no depending on some random initialization of those weights you'll be correct about 50 percent
of the time and then off of this we're just plotting history accuracy history validation accuracy for
those keys and if you wanted to you don't have to plot train and test but it should apply to kind of
see the point at where you're no longer getting any improvement on your test data.
And for my particular program that happened around 40 epochs so maybe training for a hundred epochs
isn't even that useful since you should get results that are pretty darn good around maybe 80 percent
accuracy area test set around the 50 epoch Mark.
All right.
So if you wanted to save this model all you need to do is say model that save and choose some sort of
file path.
So my brand new model dot H5.
So that would say this H5 waits under whatever you just trained up here.
Now in our case we're going to use the model that we've already trained for you.
And again that is the chapel.
Underscore ten dot H five.
So I'm going to load up that model so I will say model that load weights and against called Chaput underscore
that H5.
You have to be in the correct notebook if you want you could just pass an entire file path to this H5
folder.
But I recommend running this inside the deep learning folder so you don't get any errors.
So go ahead and load those weights.
Now you have our hundred epoch trained model and then we're going to use this to evaluate on the given
test set.
So we want to do is want to predict results for the input test and the queries test so we'll say predicted.
Let me zoom in here so we can see the code a little better.
We'll say predicted results or pred results is equal to model that predict and as a tuple that has two
inputs the first input is inputs test and then the second item.
It's actually in this list is queries underscore a test.
So here I have a tuple of a single item where the single item is a list of two items inputs test and
queries test.
It makes sense that I no longer pass in answers because I'm trying to predict based off my test set.
I don't want to pass on answers nor do I have a need to because I'm not predicting answers based off
the test set.
So again if you want to predict based off new stories new questions you simply call the predict method
off your model and then using this formatting you pass in a new story and a new set of questions and
we'll show you how to write your own stories on questions in just a little bit.
So go ahead and run that.
It should predict some results for you.
Remember our test data.
If we take a look at it it's essentially I run this whole thing.
It's tuples right where we have the story.
The question and then the answer so I can take a look at the first story here and says Mary got the
milk there.
John moved to the bedroom and is going to ask something like where's John.
So we're going to do now is generate the prediction from the actual model.
So if I take a look at the pred results is essentially just a bunch of probabilities.
Notice that it actually has probabilities for every single word.
So I check the shape of this it's 1000 by 38.
So we have thirty seven vocab words plus one extra for padding and then we had 1000 Test stories test
questions and test answers.
So if I take a look at the very first one here ups make sure we grab zero off predict the results.
These are the probabilities for every single vocab words.
It makes sense that the probabilities for random words like John and moved based off the token a or
word index should be extremely low because we wouldn't expect the correct answer to be something like
milk to a question of is John in the kitchen which is the question that goes along with this first test
dataset.
So we're gonna do is we're then going to perform ARG Max in order to figure out which of these words
has the max probability and it should be either yes or no.
So the way we can generate a prediction directly of yes or no we're just going to say my max value essentially
the max probability is equal to FP ARG Max of predicted results.
Let's go ahead and just do the first one so I'm actually gonna print out everything for the first test
data.
So say test data.
Mary got the milk there.
John moved to the bedroom.
The question was Is John in the kitchen and then the correct answer was No.
He is not.
He moves to the bedroom.
Right.
So let's go ahead and see what the prediction was based off this first prediction results.
So I have my VAX maximum value.
And then what I can do here is simply say for key val and took a nicer word index items.
No word index items essentially just the the word index and the word itself will say if vow is equal
to Val Max K's equal the key essentially just searching for the word.
And then once you run that if you go ahead and just print out k it should tell you know as long as you
trained it enough epochs because it's asking us is John in the kitchen.
It's no.
We can also check how sure it is of this by simply grabbing the predicted results at that in the exposition
of zero and then calling Val underscore Max is essentially going to return back to direct probability
that we saw up here.
So we're gonna run this and now we can see the model is ninety nine point nine percent sure that John
isn't in the kitchen.
All right.
So now comes the really cool part where we're going to write our own stories and questions and then
run them through the actual model
something you're going to need to be aware of as you're doing this is recall we have a set vocabulary
so if I say vocab these are the only words that my model is aware of.
Which means these are the only words I can use for testing the model.
I can't write in proper names or other verbs that it won't understand.
So keep that in mind as you're writing your own stories.
You're going to have to not only format it in the correct way but be limited to the vocabulary that
our network was trained on.
You can't do things like was hose a in the Super Bowl or something like that because it doesn't know
what Hosey is this note the Super Bowl is et cetera.
So let's go ahead and create a story first.
So I will say the following I will say my story and I was going to type this out as a string and something
we're also going to have to do is keep a space in between punctuation as I'm not sure what I mean by
that.
We're going to say Jon left the kitchen space period.
Space Sandra dropped and then you can look for any object here.
I see we have football.
So we'll go ahead and drop the football and we'll drop it in the garden.
So say Sandra dropped the football in the garden space period.
And the reason we have these spaces after the period is because right after this.
I want to make sure my story is in the same format as what it was trained on.
And recall our test data is a list here where the punctuation is separated.
So all I need to do is say the following we will say my story and then we just need to split it.
So let's go ahead and do that.
We will say my underscore story and then call that split.
And here we can see my story is now basically in the same sort of formatting that the test data was
in or the training data then we'll create one more for my question and we'll say my underscore question
is equal to and let's ask about that football will say is the football in the garden space question
mark and recall that the question should also be split for the formatting.
So if we come back here and look at our original training data remember these questions for the test
data and the training data are also a list of all the words.
So we'll do the same thing here.
We'll say my question that split and we'll see that this is the format we need the question is.
So let's create a brand new dataset of just one single story.
One single question and then also a single answer and we'll pass it into our vector rise data function.
So we'll say my data is equal to and this is exactly what you would need to do if you wanted to expand
your training set or your test set.
You could hire somebody or you yourself could create new stories new questions and then correct answers.
So the way it's going to work is we're simply going to make a list because remember our training data
was just a list of three item tuples.
So here is just going to be one tuple where it's my story that split it's my question thought split
and then the correct answer in this case is the football in the garden.
Well it is because Sandra dropped the football in the garden so we'll say the answer is yes.
OK so now we have a data set which is in the exact same format of my original training data and my original
test data except this time is just one single set of question or story question and answer.
It's not a bunch of them as the training data was or the test data was.
So I have my data in the exact same format as expected by the victories story function.
No.
We create a function earlier that vector I stories.
So all I'm going to do is pass in my data here and I'm going to impact this to be my story my quests
and my aunts for my answer run that and I have a vector res version of my story so if you check out
my story here it's now been victimized with some padding here.
It's the same thing for my question and the same thing for my answer.
So this is all ready to go.
Now what I want to do is call the model and predict only off my story and my question.
So just as before we're just going to copy and paste what we did earlier.
So you can always predict on a new set of data just as you predicted on the test set will come back
here and call pred results is modeled up predict.
So I'm going to copy this and in machine learning again the way you predict on your data is the same
we predicted on the test data.
So here we are calling to call a model that predict except this time instead of inputs test and queries
test all Pessin
my story and my question and now I have the predicted results just for that single story and just for
that single question let's go ahead and copy and paste what we also said here which was just that Max
is NPR predicted results.
Remember predictive results has not been changed to only my story my question and right now we're just
looking to predict the results of the first item will come back down here and run this.
Check out what case.
And we say K is yes.
So we have a model that predicted correctly amazingly on our own story on our own question.
I hope you realize just how basically freaking awesome this is.
You can write your own stories your own questions within the limitations the vocabulary and the model
with pretty good accuracy is going to respond correctly to a lot of these questions that you create
for yourself.
So if you want to figure out how sure it was you simply need to say predict the results.
0 at the maximum value and what's predicted results plural and you can see that it was around ninety
nine point two percent sure that it was the correct answer yes.
All right I hope you enjoyed this exercise for creating our own chat bots and I would love to see how
you can expand this to your own stories and your own datasets for your own problems either for your
own projects or work.
Thanks and we'll see you there.